Elktra Products, a 80 years old electronics company, who used to be a leading manufacturer and retailer of electronics and supplies.
Some problems faced by Elktra Products
Increased foreign and domestic competition. 
No new innovative product ideas. 
Inter-department communication problems. 
Low morale. 
Things the company could have done to improve the current situation
Firstly, building a solid communication channel helps not only the employees working in different teams, but also the top management. Working out loud and setting a tone for open communication and transparency, can reduce mismanagement and improve motivation in all personnel. An open communication can provide a constructive feedback on team projects or ideas, which will lead to better workflow. The employees of all departments should respect the opinions from other teams, even if they contrast your own opinion in the matter.
One easy method to increase inter-department communication is to hold meetings. Holding meetings also solve another problem, that is brainstorming new and innovative product ideas. Conducting brainstorming sessions will not only help in building a good rapport with employees from different departments, but also solve a major problem which is holding the company back from its competitors. Having set a clear agenda for such meetings can have positive effects on the production level of the employees. Keeping these brainstorming meetings short is also a key factor that can turn Elktra Products into a new kind of organization.
Ways Barbara could have avoided the problems
Barbara, who is the head of the manufacturing department, and her team were given assignment on generating an idea that will improve how the company can become more efficient in the retail sector. Although the manufacturing team came up with an innovative idea, the fact remains that they did not think of involving employees from different departments, who would have been more that able to come up with something more feasible.
Even though Barbara and her team were empowered and had high moral, the assignment had a detrimental affect on their self-esteem. Later when the enthusiastic members brought the outcomes and their wild idea during the head of departments meeting, the result was disastrous.
The director of human resource complained that the idea of personnel changes could destroy carefully crafted job categories.
The finance department argued that allowing sales persons to make $500 refund would be used by unethical customers and sales persons to their advantage.
The legal department warned that providing information to the sales force about future core operations of the company can invite spying from competitors.
